DEBACLE.
I'M RESPONSIBLE.
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY OF HEALTH
AND HUMAN SERVICES KATHLEEN
SEBELIUS FACED 3.5 HOURS OF
QUESTIONING ON CAPITOL HILL
TODAY ABOUT THE TROUBLED
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY, AN
EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH SENATE
REPUBLICAN LEADER, MITCH
McCONNELL ON THE CHALLENGES
FACING HIS PARTY, AND ON VARIOUN
OVER THE BOTCHED HEALTH CARE
ROLLOUT.
>> I DON'T THINK ALBERT EINSTEIN
COULD MAKE IT WORK.
IT CAN'T WORK, IT WON'T WORK,
AND I FEEL SORRY FOR HER TO HAVE
TO BE PUT IN A POSITION WHERE
SHE'S TRYING TO MAKE SOMETHING
WORK OUT THAT WON'T.
>> Woodruff: AND WORRIES ABOUT
PINT-SIZED PLAYERS TAKING BIG
HITS AND GETTING HEAD INJURIES.
WE DELVE INTO THE DEBATE OVER
KIDS' SPORTS, AND THE RISK OF
CONCUSSIONS.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S "PBS
NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: THE SECRETARY OF
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES WAS
CALLED BEFORE CONGRESS TODAY TO
DEFEND PROBLEMS WITH THE NEW
HEALTH CARE OVERHAUL.
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS SAID THE
PROGRAM'S WEBSITE HAS BEEN A
DEBACLE, BUT SHE ALSO FACED A
HOST OF OTHER QUESTIONS.
"NEWSHOUR" CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN
BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
>> Reporter: FOR SECRETARY
SEBELIUS, THE FIRST ORDER OF
BUSINESS-- BEFORE THE ENERGY AND
COMMERCE COMMITTEE-- WAS MEA
CULPA.
>> I AM AS FRUSTRATED AND ANGRY
AS ANYONE WITH THE FLAWED LAUNCH
OF healthcare.gov, SO LET ME SAY
DIRECTLY TO THESE AMERICANS: YOU
DESERVE BETTER.
I APOLOGIZE.
I AM ACCOUNTABLE TO YOU FOR
FIXING THESE PROBLEMS, AND I'M
COMMITTED TO EARNING YOUR
CONFIDENCE BACK BY FIXING THE
SITE.
>> Reporter: BUT SEBELIUS FACED
NEW QUESTIONS THAT GO BEYOND
TECHNICAL PROBLEMS ON THE
WEBSITE.
THEY INVOLVE A GOVERNMENT MEMO
SHOWING BEFORE THE SITE LAUNCHED
ON OCTOBER FIRST, MEDICARE
OFFICIALS WORRIED INADEQUATE
TESTING LEFT IT VULNERABLE TO
SECURITY BREACHES.
REPUBLICAN MIKE ROGERS OF
MICHIGAN:
>> YOU ALLOWED THE SYSTEM TO GO
FORWARD WITH NO ENCRYPTION ON
BACKUP SYSTEMS.
THEY HAD NO ENCRYPTION ON
CERTAIN BOUNDARY CROSSINGS.
YOU ACCEPTED A RISK ON BEHALF OF
EVERY USER OF THIS COMPUTER THAT
PUT THEIR PERSONAL FINANCIAL
INFORMATION AT RISK BECAUSE YOU
DID NOT EVEN HAVE THE MOST BASIC
END-TO-END TEST ON SECURITY OF
THE SYSTEM.
AMAZON WOULD NEVER DO THIS.
PROFLOWERS WOULD NEVER DO THIS.
KAYAK WOULD NEV DO ERTHIS.
THIS IS COMPLETELY AN
UNACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF SECURITY.
>> Reporter: SEBELIUS CONTENDED
THE WEBSITE IS SECURE AND THAT
ADDITIONAL MEASURES ARE BEING
TAKEN.
>> AUTHORIZATION TO OPERATE ON A
PERMANENT BASIS WILL NOT BE
SIGNED UNTIL THESE MITIGATION
STRATEGIES ARE SATISFIED.
IT IS UNDERWAY RIGHT NOW.
BUT DAILY AND WEEKLY MONITORING
AND TESTING IS UNDERWAY.
WE HAVE...
>> Reporter: SEBELIUS
ACKNOWLEDGED OVERALL TESTING OF
THE WEB SITE WAS RUSHED, BUT
THAT SHE BELIEVED POTENTIAL
PROBLEMS HAD BEEN ADDRESSED.
>> DO YOU BELIEVE THAT TWO WEEKS
WAS ENOUGH TIME TO COMPLETE
TESTING OF THE ENTIRE SYSTEM?
>> CLEARLY NOT.
>> AND WHEN WERE YOU MADE AWARE
OF THE RESULT OF THE TEST,
INCLUDING THE ONE WHERE THE
SYSTEM COLLAPSED WITH ONLY A FEW
HUNDRED USERS?
>> LEADING UP TO THE OCTOBER 1ST
DATE, WE HAD REGULAR MEETINGS
WITH NOT ONLY A TEAM AT C.M.S.,
BUT ADMINISTRATORS INVOLVED.
I WAS MADE AWARE THAT WE WERE
TESTING, AND AS WE FOUND
PROBLEMS, WE WERE FIXING THOSE
PROBLEMS.
>> Reporter: REPUBLICANS ALSO
PRESSED AGAIN FOR NUMBERS:
NAMELY HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
ABLE TO ENROLL FOR INSURANCE IN
LIGHT OF THE TECHNICAL ISSUES.
>> WILL YOU ON THE RECORD RIGHT
NOW AUTHORIZE THEM TO GIVE US
THOSE NUMBERS AND LET US
DETERMINE WHETHER THOSE ARE
RELIABLE
>> NO, SIR, I WANT TO GIVE YOU
RELIABLE CONFIRMED DATA FROM
EVERY STATE AND FROM THE FEDERAL
MARKETPLACE.
WE HAVE SAID THAT WE WILL DO
THAT ON A MONTHLY BASIS BY THE
MIDDLE OF THE MONTH.
YOU WILL HAVE THAT DATA BUT I
DON'T WANT TO TURN OVER ANYTHING
THAT IS NOT CONFIRMED AND
RELIABLE AND THAT'S WHAT WE'LL
DO.
>> WELL, BUT THAT DATA OUT THERE
EXISTS AND YOU WILL NOT LET US
HAVE THEM...
>> SIR I WILL TELL YOU RIGHT NOW
IT IS NOT RELIABLE DATA
ACCORDING TO THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES WHO ARE EAGER TO HAVE
CUSTOMERS.
THEY ARE NOT GETTING RELIABLE
DATA ALL THE WAY THROUGH THE
SYSTEM.
THAT'S ONE OF THE REAL PROBLEMS
THAT WE HAVE.
>> Reporter: AT THE SAME TIME,
SEBELIUS ACKNOWLEDGED INITIAL
ENROLLMENT NUMBERS ARE LIKELY TO
BE LOW.
>> WELL, OUR PROJECTIONS PRIOR
TO LAUNCH WERE ALWAYS THAT THERE
WOULD BE A VERY SMALL NUMBER AT
THE BEGINNING.
WE WATCHED THE MASSACHUSSETTS
TREND WHICH STARTED SLOWLY AND
BUILT.
I THINK THERE'S NO QUESTION THAT
GIVEN OUR FLAWED LAUNCH OF
healthcare.gov IT WILL BE A VERY
SMALL NUMBER.
>> Reporter: SOME DEMOCRATS,
INCLUDING LOIS CAPPS OF
CALIFORNIA, POINTED TO THE
RELATIVE SUCCESS OF STATE-RUN
EXCHANGES.
AND, THEY CHALLENGED REPUBLICAN
CRITICS TO MEET THE DEMAND FOR
AFFORDABLE HEALTH INSURANCE.
>> THE GOVERNORS AND STATE
LEGISLATORS THAT EMBRACED THIS
LAW ARE DELIVERING FOR THEIR
COMMUNITIES.
BUT THOSE ELECTED WHO ARE TRYING
TO IGNORE THE OPPORTUNITIES
PRESENTED AND CONTINUE TO THROW
UP ROADBLOCKS BOTH HERE IN
CONGRESS AND IN STATE
LEGISLATORS SHOULD NOT NOW SEEM
SURPRISED THAT THERE ARE
SIGNIFICANT BUMPS ALONG THE WAY.
THIS SEEMS TO BE COMPLETELY
DISINGENUOUS.
>> Reporter: IN TODAY'S
TESTIMONY, SECRETARY SEBELIUS
DIDN'T ADDRESS CALLS BY SOME
REPUBLICANS THAT SHE RESIGN.
SHE PROMISED AGAIN THE WEBSITE
WILL BE FIXED BY NOVEMBER 30.
AND SHE TOOK ON THE CRITICISM
INSURANCE COMPANIES ARE
CANCELING THOUSANDS OF EXISTING
POLICIES DESPITE THE PRESIDENT'S
PLEDGE INDIVIDUALS COULD KEEP
THEIR PLANS IF THEY WANTED TO.
IN OTHER WORDS, THEY'D BE
GRANDFATHERED IN.
>> WE OUTLINED THE GRANDFATHER
POLICY SO PEOPLE COULD KEEP
THEIR OWN PLANS.
WE THEN BEGAN TO IMPLEMENT THE
OTHER FEATURES OF THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT.
SO IF SOMEONE IS BUYING A BRAND
NEW POLICY IN THE INDIVIDUAL
MARKET TODAY OR LAST WEEK, THEY
WILL HAVE CONSUMER PROTECTIONS
FOR THE FIRST TIME.
BUT IF, AGAIN, A PLAN IS IN
PLACE AND WAS IN PLACE AT THE
TIME THAT THE PRESIDENT SIGNED
THE BILL AND THE CONSUMER WANTS
TO KEEP THE PLAN, THOSE
INDIVIDUALS ARE GRANDFATHERED
IN, AND THAT'S HAPPENING ACROSS
THE COUNTRY IN THESE INDIVIDUAL
MARKETS.
>> Reporter: SEBELIUS SAID ONLY
ABOUT FIVE PERCENT OF AMERCIANS
WERE AFFECTED BY CANCELLATIONS--
A CLAIM REJECTED BY REPUBLICANS
WHO QUESTIONED HER REPEATEDLY ON
THE ISSUE.
MARSHA BLACKBURN OF TENNESSEE
SAID MANY POLICYHOLDERS HAVE
SIMPLY BEEN LEFT IN THE LURCH.
>> WHAT DO YOU SAY TO MARK AND
LUCINDA IN MY DISTRICT, WHO HAD
A PLAN, THEY LIKED IT, IT WAS
AFFORDABLE, BUT IT IS BEING
TERMINATED, AND NOW THEY DO NOT
HAVE HEALTH INSURANCE?
>> INSURANCE COMPANIES CANCEL
INDIVIDUAL POLICIES YEAR IN AND
YEAR OUT.
THEY'RE A ONE-YEAR CONTRACT WITH
INDIVIDUALS.
THEY A NOTRE LIFETIME PLANS.
THEY'RE NOT AN EMPLOYER PLAN...
>> LET ME MOVE... LET ME MOVE
ON.
IF WHAT THEY WANTED AND I WILL
REMIND YOU, SOME PEOPLE LIKE TO
DRIVE A FORD, NOT A FERRARI, AND
SOME PEOPLE LIKE TO DRINK OUT OF
A RED SOLO CUP, NOT A CRYSTAL
STEM.
YOU'RE TAKING AWAY THEIR CHOICE.
>> Reporter: TOWARD THE END OF
THE HEARING, THE WHITE HOUSE
RELEASED A STATEMENT SAYING
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS COMPLETE
CONFIDENCE IN SECRETARY
SEBELIUS.
>> Ifill: WE'LL HEAR SOME OF
WHAT THE PRESIDENT HAD TO SAY
TODAY ABOUT THE HEALTH CARE
ROLL-OUT, RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
THE FEDERAL RESERVE ANNOUNCED
TODAY IT'S KEEPING SHORT-TERM
INTEREST RATES AT A RECORD LOW,
AND CONTINUING ITS STIMULUS
EFFORTS FOR NOW.
BUT, THE CENTRAL BANK DID NOT
REPEAT LAST MONTH'S WARNING THAT
HIGHER MORTGAGE RATES COULD HURT
ECONOMIC GROWTH.
THE STATEMENT MADE NO REFERENCE
TO THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF LAST
MONTH'S 16-DAY GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN.
WALL STREET TOOK THOSE OMISSIONS
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 61 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,618.
THE NASDAQ FELL MORE THAN 21
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 3,930.
HOUSE AND SENATE NEGOTIATORS
OPENED BUDGET TALKS TODAY AIMED
AT EASING AUTOMATIC, ACROSS-THE-
BOARD SPENDING CUTS.
THE TWO BUDGET COMMITTEE CHAIRS-
- REPUBLICAN CONGRESSMAN PAUL
RYAN AND DEMOCRATIC SENATOR
PATTY MURRAY SAID THEY HOPED TO
GET A DEAL, BUT THE PROSPECT OF
RAISING TAXES REMAINS A STICKING
POINT.
>> SIMPLY TAKING MORE FROM THE
HARD-WORKING FAMILIES OF AMERICA
JUST ISN'T THE ANSWER.
I KNOW MY REPUBLICAN COLLEAGUES
FEEL THE SAME.
SO I WANT TO SAY THIS FROM THE
GET-GO.
IF WE LOOK AT THIS CONFERENCE AS
AN ARGUMENT ABOUT TAXES, WE'RE
NOT GOING TO GET ANYWHERE.
THE WAY TO RAISE REVENUE FROM
OUR PERSPECTIVE IS TO GROW THE
ECONOMY, TO GET PEOPLE BACK TO
WORK.
>> COMPROMISE RUNS BOTH WAYS.
WHILE WE SCOUR PROGRAMS TO FIND
RESPONSIBLE SAVINGS, REPUBLICANS
ARE ALSO GOING TO HAVE TO WORK
WITH US TO SCOUR THE BLOATED TAX
CODE AND CLOSE SOME WASTEFUL TAX
LOOPHOLES AND SPECIAL INTEREST
SUBSIDIES BECAUSE IT IS UNFAIR
AND UNACCEPTABLE TO ASK SENIORS
AND FAMILIES TO BEAR THIS BURDEN
ALONE.
>> Ifill: THE COMMITTEE HAS
UNTIL DECEMBER 13 TO HAMMER OUT
AN AGREEMENT.
OTHERWISE, THE NEXT ROUND OF
CUTS WILL KICIN NK EXT YEAR.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THIS, LATER
IN THE PROGRAM.
THERE'S WORD THAT THE NATIONAL
THE DEFICIT RAN $680 BILLION -L
LAST MONTH.
THE FIRST TIME RED INK HAS
FALLEN BELOW A TRILLION DOLLARS
IN FIVE YEARS.
TODAY'S REPORT SAID REVENUES
ROSE BY 13% WHILE SPENDING FELL
NEARLY 2.5%.
THERE'S WORD THAT THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY IS ROUTINELY
INTERCEPTING E-MAIL TRAFFIC
BETWEEN YAHOO AND GOOGLE DATA
CENTERS.
"THE WASHINGTON POST" REPORTED
TODAY IT'S BEING DONE JOINTLY
WITH BRITISH INTELLIGENCE, AND
INVOLVES MILLIONS OF RECORDS
EVERY DAY.
THE N.S.A. DIRECTOR-- ARMY
GENERAL KEITH ALEXANDER--
CHALLENGED THE REPORT, WHICH
SURFACED FROM MORE MATERIAL
LEAKED BY EDWARD SNOWDEN.
ALEXANDER SAID TO HIS KNOWLEDGE,
THE AGENCY HAS NOT TAPPED THE
COMPANY'S SERVERS.
TWO TOP GERMAN OFFICIALS WERE IN
WASHINGTON TODAY, PURSUING
REPORTS THAT THE N.S.A.
MONITORED CHANCELLOR ANGELA
MERKEL'S CELLPHONE.
AND IN MADRID, SPANISH PRIME
MINISTER MARIANO RAJOY WENT
BEFORE HIS PARLIAMENT TO ADDRESS
ALLEGATIONS THAT SPAIN, TOO, WAS
A TARGET OF U.S. SURVEILLANCE.
>> ( translated ): THE KEY IS TO
CLARIFY WHAT HAPPENED AND
GENERATE CONFIDENCE BECAUSE
WITHOUT THAT, IT IS VERY
DIFFICULT TO WORK FOR THE
RIGHTS, LIBERTIES AND SECURITY
OF OUR CITIZENS.
I HOPE WE WILL GET THIS.
WE HAVE ALREADY REQUESTED THE
APPEARANCE OF THE HEAD OF
SPAIN'S INTELLIGENCE SERVICES
AND HE WILL APPEAR IN THIS
CHAMBER AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
>> Ifill: THE GOVERNMENT OF
CHINA ALSO WEIGHED IN,
ANNOUNCING TODAY IT WILL
STRENGTHEN INFORMATIONECUR SITY,
TO GUARD AGAINST OUTSIDE
SURVEILLANCE.
CHINESE POLICE SAY THEY'VE
ARRESTED FIVE PEOPLE IN A
SUICIDE CAR CRASH THIS WEEK IN
BEIJING.
ON MONDAY, AN S.U.V. SPED DOWN A
CROWDED SIDEWALK AND EXPLODED
INTO FLAMES ACROSS FROM
TIANANMEN SQUARE AT THE ENTRANCE
TO THE FORBIDDEN CITY.
FIVE PEOPLE DIED.
SCORES WERE HURT.
STATE TELEVISION TODAY
IDENTIFIED THE SUSPECTS AS
ETHNIC UIGHURS, A RESTIVE MUSLIM
MINORITY IN NORTHWESTERN CHINA.
>> ( translated ): THE OCTOBER
28 INCIDENT WAS A CAREFULLY PRE-
MEDITATED AND ORGANISED VIOLENT
TERRORIST ATTACK.
THE RESULTS OF THE PRELIMINARY
INVESTIGATION HAVE BEEN RELEASED
THE POLICE FOUND PETROL INSIDE
THE VEHICLE AS WELL AS
RECEPTACLES FOR PETROL, TWO
MACHETES, AND IRON BARS.
INSIDE THE CAR, THEY ALSO FOUND
A BANNER WITH EXTREME RELIGIOUS
CONTENT PRINTED ON IT.
THE ATTACK WAS THE FIRST IN
BEIJING IN THE CITY'S RECENT
HISTORY.
IN IRAQ, A PAIR OF SUICIDE
BOMBINGS KILLED AT LEAST 20
PEOPLE OVERNIGHT.
NEARLY TWO DOZEN OTHERS WERE
WOUNDED.
ONE OF THE BOMBINGS TARGETED
SOLDIERS AND MILITIAMEN IN THE
TOWN OF TARMIYAH, NORTH OF
BAGHDAD.
THE OTHER TOOK PLACE AT A
CHECKPOINT OUTSIDE A POLICE
STATION NEAR MOSUL.
THE LATEST VIOLENCE CAME AS
IRAQI PRIME MINISTER NOURI AL-
MALIKI TRAVELED TO WASHINGTON IN
SEARCH OF ADDITIONAL MILITARY
AID.
BEGINNING NEXT WEEK, THE TOWN OF
SANFORD, FLORIDA WILL NO LONGER
ALLOW NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH
VOLUNTEERS TO CARRY GUNS.
THE DECISION FOLLOWS THE JULY
ACQUITTAL OF NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH
ORGANIZER GEORGE ZIMMERMAN, WHO
SHOT AND KILLED UNARMED TEENAGER
TRAYVON MARTIN LAST YEAR.
SANFORD POLICE SAY THEY WANT TO
RETURN TO HAVING CIVILIAN
PATROLS REPORT WHAT THEY SEE TO
AUTHORITIES, BUT DO NOTHING
MORE.
SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS WILL GO
UP JUST 1.5% NEXT YEAR AN
AVERAGE OF ABOUT $19 A MONTH.
THE ANNUAL COST-OF-LIVING
ADJUSTMENT, ANNOUNCED TODAY, IS
ONE OF THE SMALLEST SINCE 1975,
WHEN THE AUTOMATIC HIKES BEGAN.
IT'S BECAUSE CONSUMER PRICES
STAYED IN CHECK IN THIS YEAR.
THE INCREASE AECTSFF NEARLY 58
MILLION AMERICANS.
>> Ifill: STILL AHE ON ADTHE
"NEWSHOUR": PRESIDENT OBAMA
DEFENDS THE HEALTH CARE LAW; AN
EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH THE
SENATE'S TOP REPUBLICAN; THE
LATEST ROUND OF BUDGET TALKS
KICK OFF ON CAPITOL HILL.
CONCUSSIONS FOR KIDS PLAYING
SPORTS.
AND ROGER ROSENBLATT IS BACK
WITH HIS LATEST BOOK.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN NOW TO
PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS ON THE ROAD
TODAY, DEFENDING THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT AGAINST ITS CRITICS AND
OUTLINING WHAT HE SEES AS ITS
BENEFITS.
HE NOTED THAT A SIMILAR LAW THAT
WAS SIGNED IN MASSACHUSETTS IN
2006 HAD SOME BUMPS ALONG THE
WAY BUT IS CONSIDERED SUCCESSFUL
NOW.
SPEAKING AT BOSTON'S AT FANUEIL
HALL, THE PRESIDENT ALSO OFFERED
AN EXPLANATION FOR WHY SOME
AMERICANS ARE BEING DROPPED FROM
THEIR INSURANCE PLANS.
>> TODAY THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
REQUIRES INSURANCE COMPANIES TO
ABIDE BY SOME OF THE STRONGEST
CONSUMER PROTECTION THIS IS
COUNTRY HAS EVER KNOWN.
A TRUE PATIENT'S BILL OF RIGHTS.
(APPLAUSE)
NO MORE DISCRIMINATING AGAINST
KIDS WITH PREEXISTING
CONDITIONS.
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
NO MORE DROPPING YOUR POLICY
WHEN YOU GET SICK AND NEED IT
MOST.
(APPLAUSE)
NO MORE LIFETIME LIMITS OR
RESTRICTED ANNUAL LIMITS.
(APPLAUSE)
MOST PLANS NOW HAVE TO COVER
FREE PREVENTATIVE CARE LIKE
MAMMOGRAMS AND BIRTH CONTROL.(A)
YOUNG PEOPLE CAN STAY ON THEIR
PARENTS' PLANS UNTIL THEY TURN
26.
ALL OF THIS IS IN PLACE RIGHT
NOW.
IT IS WORKING RIGHT NOW.
LET'S FACE IT, WE'VE HAD A
PROBLEM.
THE WEB SITE HASN'T WORKED THE
WAY IT'S SUPPOSED TO OVER THESE
LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS.
AND AS A CONSEQUENCE A LOT OF
PEOPLE HAVEN'T HAD A CHANCE TO
SEE JUST HOW GOOD THE PRICES FOR
QUALITY HEALTH INSURANCE THROUGH
THESE MARKETPLACES REALLY ARE.
NOW, ULTIMATELY THIS WEBSITE --
healthcare.gov-- WILL BE THE
EASIEST WAY TO SHOP FOR AND BUY
THESE NEW PLANS BECAUSE YOU CAN
SEE THESE PLANS RIGHT NEXT TO
EACH OTHER AND COMPARE PRICES
AND SEE WHAT KIND OF COVERAGE IT
PROVIDES.
BUT, LOOK, IT'S -- THERE'S NO
DENYING IT.
RIGHT NOW THE WEB SITE IS TOO
SLOW, TOO MANY PEOPLE HAVE
GOTTEN STUCK.
AND I AM NOT HAPPY ABOUT IT.
AND NEITHER ARE A LOT OF
AMERICANS WHO NEED HEALTH CARE.
AND THEY'RE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
HOW THEY CAN SIGN UP AS QUICKLY
AS POSSIBLE.
SO THERE'S NO EXCUSE FOR IT.
AND I TAKE FULL RESPONSIBILITY
FOR MAKING SURE IT GETS FIXED
A.S.A.P.
WE ARE WORKING OVERTIME TO
IMPROVE IT EVERYDAY.
UNFORTUNATELY, THERE ARE OTHERS
THAT ARE SO LOCKED IN TO THE
POLITICS OF THIS THING THAT THEY
WON'T LIFT A FINGER TO HELP
THEIR OWN PEOPLE.
AND THAT'S LEAVING MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS UNINSURED
UNNECESSARILY.
THAT'S A SHAME.
BECAUSE IF THEY PUT AS MUCH
ENERGY INTO MAKING THIS LAW WORK
AS THEY DO IN ATTACKING THE LAW,
AMERICANS WOULD BE BETTER OFF.
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
IF YOU HAD ONE OF THESE
AMERICANS WOULD BE BETTER OFF.
SUBSTANDARD PLANS BEFORE THE
IF YOU HAD ONE OF THESE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT BECAME LAW
SUBSTANDARD PLANS BEFORE THE
AND YOU REALLY LIKE THAT PLAN
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT BECAME LAW
YOU ARE ABLE TO KEEP IT.
AND YOU REALLY LIKE THAT PLAN
THAT'S WHAT I SAID WHEN I WAS
YOU ARE ABLE TO KEEP IT.
RUNNING FOR OFFICE.
THAT'S WHAT I SAID WHEN I WAS
THAT WAS PART OF THE PROMISE WE
RUNNING FOR OFFICE.
MADE.
THAT WAS PART OF THE PROMISE WE
BUT EVER SINCE THE LAW WAS
MADE.
PASSED, IF INSURERS DECIDED TO
BUT EVER SINCE THE LAW WAS
DOWNGRADE OR CANCEL THESE
PASSED, IF INSURERS DECIDED TO
SUBSTANDARD PLANS, WELL, WE SAID
DOWNGRADE OR CANCEL THESE
UNDER THE LAW YOU'VE GOT TO
SUBSTANDARD PLANS, WELL, WE SAID
REPLACE THEM WITH QUALITY
UNDER THE LAW YOU'VE GOT TO
COMPREHENSIVE COVERAGE BECAUSE
REPLACE THEM WITH QUALITY
THAT, TOO, WAS A CENTRAL PREMISE
COMPREHENSIVE COVERAGE BECAUSE
OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT FROM
THAT, TOO, WAS A CENTRAL PREMISE
THE VERY BEGINNING.
OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT FROM
AND NEED PROMISE MEANS THAT
THE VERY BEGINNING.
EVERY PLAN IN THE MARKETPLACE
AND NEED PROMISE MEANS THAT
COVERS A CORE SET OF MINIMUM
EVERY PLAN IN THE MARKETPLACE
BENEFITS LIKE MATERNITY CARE AND
COVERS A CORE SET OF MINIMUM
PREVENTATIVE CARE AND MENTAL
BENEFITS LIKE MATERNITY CARE AND
HEALTH CARE AND PRESCRIPTION
PREVENTATIVE CARE AND MENTAL
DRUG BENEFITS AND
HEALTH CARE AND PRESCRIPTION
HOSPITALIZATION AND THEY CAN'T
DRUG BENEFITS AND
USE ALLERGIES OR PREGNANCY OR A
HOSPITALIZATION AND THEY CAN'T
SPORTS INJURY OR THE FACT THAT
USE ALLERGIES OR PREGNANCY OR A
YOU'RE A WOMAN TO CHARGE YOU
SPORTS INJURY OR THE FACT THAT
MORE.
YOU'RE A WOMAN TO CHARGE YOU
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
MORE.
THEY CAN'T DO THAT ANYMORE.
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
SO, YES, THIS IS HARD.
THEY CAN'T DO THAT ANYMORE.
BECAUSE THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
SO, YES, THIS IS HARD.
IS A BIG SYSTEM.
BECAUSE THE HEALTH CARE SYSTEM
AND IT'S COMPLICATED.
IS A BIG SYSTEM.
AND IF IT WAS HARD DOING IT JUST
AND IT'S COMPLICATED.
IN ONE STATE, IT'S HARDER TO DO
AND IF IT WAS HARD DOING IT JUST
IT IN ALL 50 STATES.
IN ONE STATE, IT'S HARDER TO DO
ESPECIALLY WHEN THE GOVERNORS OF
IT IN ALL 50 STATES.
A BUNCH OF STATES AND HALF OF
ESPECIALLY WHEN THE GOVERNORS OF
THE CONGRESS AREN'T TRYING TO
A BUNCH OF STATES AND HALF OF
HELP.
THE CONGRESS AREN'T TRYING TO
YEAH.
HELP.
IT'S HARD BUT IT'S WORTH IT.
YEAH.
IT IS THE RIGHT THING TO DO AND
IT'S HARD BUT IT'S WORTH IT.
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP MOVING
IT IS THE RIGHT THING TO DO AND
FORWARD!
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP MOVING
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
FORWARD!
WE ARE GOING TO KEEP WORKING TO
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
IMPROVE THE LAW JUST LIKE YOU
WE ARE GOING TO KEEP WORKING TO
DID HERE IN MASSACHUSETTS!
IMPROVE THE LAW JUST LIKE YOU
(CHEERS AND APPLAUSE)
>> Ifill: NOW, FOR A DIFFERENT
POINT OF VIEW, WE TURN TO OUR
NEWSMAKER INTERVIEW WITH SENATE
MINORITY LEADER MITCH McCONNELL.
WE TALKED ABOUT THE HEALTH CARE
ROLLOUT, GOVERNMENT
SURVEILLANCE, THE RECENT
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN AND THE
BATTLE OVER THE FERALED BUDGET.
I SPOKE WITH HIM THIS MORNING IN
THE CAPITOL.
SENATOR McCONNELL, WELCOME.
AS WE SPEAK THIS MORNING,
KATHLEEN SEBELIUS IS TESTIFYING
IN THE HOUSE ABOUT
healthcare.gov AND YOU HAVE
CALLED OBAMACARE A ROLLING
DISASTER BUT YOU HAVEN'T CALLED
FOR HER TO RESIGN.
WHY NOT?
>> WELL, LOOK, I DON'T THINK
ANYBODY COULD MAKE THIS WORK.
WE SAID BACK IN 2009 WHEN IT WAS
PASSED WITHOUT A SINGLE VOTE TO
SPARE, NOT A SINGLE MEMBER OF MY
PARTY IN THE HOUSE OR SENATE
VOTING FOR IT IT COULDN'T
POSSIBLY WORK.
WE PREDICTED THAT INSURANCE --
HEALTH INSURANCE PREMIUMS WOULD
GO UP, JOBS WOULD BE LOST AND
THE PRESIDENT'S PRINCE PAL
PROMISE THAT IF YOU HAD YOUR
HEALTH INSURANCE AND YOU LIKED
IT YOU'D BE ABLE TO KEEP IT,
NONE OF THAT WOULD HAPPEN.
REGRETFULLY, FROM THE POINT OF
VIEW OF THOSE WHO ADVOCATED
THIS, THE CRITICS WERE ENTIRELY
CORRECT.
THE WEB SITE MAY BE GOOD ITEM
FOR LATE NIGHT COMEDY BUT EVEN
IF PEOPLE ARE ABLE TO GET ON IT,
ONE THING YOU CAN BE SURE OF IS
THE CHOICES WILL NOT BE GOOD,
THE PREMIUMS WILL BE HIGHER.
>> Ifill: BUT BACK TO
SECRETARY SEBELIUS.
SHE SAID THIS MORNING SHE SHOULD
BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE.
YOU DON'T THINK ACCOUNTABILITY
INVOLVES RESIGNATION?
>> SHE WORKS FOR THE PRESIDENT.
THE PRESIDENT MAKES A DECISION
ABOUT WHETHER HE WANTS TO
CONTINUE HER.
I THINK THAT'S TO SOME EXTENT A
DISTRACTION.
THE POINT IS COULD ANYBODY MAKE
IT WORK?
I DON'T THINK ALBERT EINSTEIN
COULD MAKE THIS THING WORK.
IT CAN'T WORK.
IT WON'T WORK.
SO I FEEL SORRY FOR HER BEING
PUT IN A POSITION WHERE SHE'S
TRYING TO MAKE SOMETHING WORK
OUT THAT WON'T.
I'VE -- SOONER OR LATER THEY'LL
GET THE WEB SITE FIXED BUT
THAT'S NOT THE REAL STORY.
THE QUESTION IS WHAT'S GOING TO
BE AVAILABLE ONCE YOU ARE ABLE
TO GET ON A WEB SITE.
>> Ifill: ON ANOTHER TOPIC
CONSUMING PEOPLE HERE ON CAPITOL
HILL THIS WEEK, THIS IDEA THAT
WE ARE SPYING ON OUR ALLIES IN
SOME WAY.
IS THIS SOMETHING YOU CONSIDER
ACCEPTABLE?
>> WELL I THINK THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMITTEES ARE LOOKING AT THAT
VERY CAREFULLY.
THEY MAY WELL BE MAKING
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CHANGES AND
I'M GOING TO LEAVE IT TO THE
EXPERTS.
I DO THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
WE HAVEN'T BEEN ATTACKED AGAIN
HERE AT HOME OTHER THAN JUST --
THE BOSTON EXPERIENCE I THINK
MAYBE IS AN EXCEPTION TO THAT,
BUT HAVEN'T BEEN ATTACKED AGAIN
HERE AT HOME SINCE 9/11 IN THE
WAY THAT WE WERE, THE MAGNITUDE
THAT WE WERE.
AND I THINK THE PROGRAMS HAVE
HAD SOME IMPACT ON THAT.
SO WE NEED TO BE CAREFUL HERE IN
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO
REFORM THIS AND NOT LET OUR
GUARD DOWN.
WE DON'T NEED TO GO BACK TO THE
TIME WHEN ALL THE C.I.A. WAS
JUST A BUNCH OF FOLKS CARRYING
AROUND BRIEFCASES.
WE'RE IN A NEW ERA WITH A NEW
CHALLENGE.
>> Ifill: SHOULD THERE BE A
LINE BETWEEN SPYING, GATHERING
INTELLIGENCE, AND EAVESDROPPING
ON THE PERSONAL PHONE CALLS OF
WORLD LEADERS?
>> WELL, I THINK WE'RE GOING TO
LOOK AT ALL OF THAT.
I THINK COUNTRIES DO SPY ON EACH
OTHER.
FRIENDS EVEN SPY ON EACH OTHER.
SHOCK OF SHOCKS.
WE NEED TO LOOK AT ALL THAT AND
MAKE SURE THAT IF ANY REFORMS
ARE NEEDED WE ENGAGE IN THEM.
>> Ifill: ANOTHER ROILING
ISSUE HERE ON CAPITOL HILL IS
WHAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN TO THE
NOMINATION OF JANET YELLEN TO BE
THE CHAIRWOMAN OF THE FED.
YOUR SEAT MATE, I BELIEVE, IN
KENTUCKY, RAND PAUL, HAS SAID HE
WOULD LIKE TO BLOCK THAT
NOMINATION IN ORDER TO GET
ANSWERS ABOUT BENGHAZI.
DO YOU THINK THAT'S A GOOD
APPROACH?
>> WELL, ONE OF THE THINGS WE
FREQUENTLY TO IN THE SENATE IN
ORDER TO BE ABLE TO HAVE INPUT
ON NOMINATIONS IS TO HOLD THEM
UP SO YOU CAN HAVE A DEBATE,
TALK ABOUT THE ISSUES THEY'D BE
RESPONSIBLE FOR IF THEY WERE TO
BE CONFIRMED.
IT'S FAIRLY ROUTINE AROUND THE
SENATE FOR NOMINATIONS THAT HAVE
SOME LEVEL OF CONTROVERSY ABOUT
THEM TO BE HELD UP SO THAT THERE
CAN BE A DISCUSSION ABOUT WHAT
YOU MIGHT DO IF YOU GOT THE JOB.
>> Ifill: EXCEPT THIS IS NOT
ABOUT HER.
IT'S BEING HELD UP EXPLICITLY
FOR AN UNRELATED REASON.
>> WELL, EVERY SENATOR DOES THAT
FROM TIME TO TIME.
IT'S NOT UNUSUAL IN THE SENATE.
>> Ifill: THAT'S OKAY BY YOU?
>> IT HAPPENS EVERYDAY IN THE
SENATE.
>> Ifill: IN THIS PARTICULAR
CASE IT'S OKAY?
>> IT HAPPENS ALL THE TIME IN
THE SENATE.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK YOU
ANOTHER QUESTION ABOUT THE
SENATE AND ITS BEHAVIOR LATELY.
IT'S NOT BEEN A QUIET TIME THE
LAST MONTH OR SO AND YOU HAVE
FAMOUSLY SAID AFTER THE LAST
SHUTDOWN THERE'S NO EDUCATION
THE IN THE SECOND KICK OF A
MULE.
SO I HAVE TO ASK YOU ABOUT THE
SECOND KICK OF A MULE.
WHAT HAPPENS WHEN WE COME BACK
TO THIS ARGUMENT ABOUT DEBT
LIMITS AGAIN NEXT YEAR AND BACK
TO THIS ARGUMENT ABOUT
CONTINUING RESOLUTIONS FOR THE
BUDGET?
IS THERE A THIRD KICK OF A MULE
IN THE OFFING HERE?
>> NO, WE'RE NOT GOING TO SHUT
THE GOVERNMENT DOWN.
WE'RE CERTAINLY NOT GOING TO
DEFAULT.
BUT IT'S AN IMPORTANT TIME TO
TALK ABOUT THE $1 TRILLION DEBT
WE'VE RUN UP.
ABOUT -- LOOKING AT IT ANOTHER
WAY, WE'VE ACCUMULATED MORE DEBT
DURING THE OBAMA YEARS THAN ALL
THE PRESIDENTS FROM GEORGE
WASHINGTON TO GEORGE BUSH.
THIS IS AN ALARMING STATISTIC.
FURTHER EVIDENCE OF WHAT WE'RE
LEAVING BEHIND FOR THE YOUNGEST
GENERATION.
SO WHEN YOU DO SOMETHING LIKE
RAISE THE DEBT CEILING IT'S NOT
BEEN UNCOMMON GOING BACK TO THE
12950s FOR THERE TO BE
SIGNIFICANT REFORMS ATTACHED TO
IT.
FREQUENT THEY HAPPENS WITH A
CONTINUING RESOLUTION.
WE THINK IT'S ALARMING THAT
AMERICA NOW HAS A DEBT THAT
MAKES US LOOK LIKE A WESTERN
EUROPEAN COUNTRY AND WE THINK WE
OUGHT TO USE THESE OCCASIONS TO
GENERATE A DISCUSSION ABOUT IT
AND SEE WHAT WE CAN GET THE
ADMINISTRATION TO AGREE WITH.
>> Ifill: BUT DID REPUBLICANS
HURT THEMSELVES IN MAKING THE
KIND OF ARGUMENTS YOU'RE LAYING
OUT HERE FOR THE LONG RUN
BECAUSE OF THE SHUTDOWN?
BECAUSE OF A STRATEGY WHICH WAS
ABOUT DEFUNDING, DELAYING
OBAMACARE THAT YOU LOST?
>> WELL, THAT WAS THE STRATEGY
THAT OBVIOUSLY WAS NOT GOING TO
WORK.
I SAID PUBLICLY AS EARLY AS JULY
IT WASN'T GOING TO WORK AND IT
DIDN'T.
AND THAT'S WHY THERE WON'T BE
ANOTHER GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN.
IT'S A STRATEGY THAT DOESN'T
WORK.
ALL REPUBLICANS WOULD LOVE TO
GET RID OF OBAMACARE.
BUT IT'S IMPORTANT TO RECOGNIZE
IT'S A DEMOCRATIC SENATE AND A
DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENT WHO THINK
IT WAS A TERRIFIC THING.
SO THAT ISN'T GOING TO HAPPEN.
IT IS, HOWEVER, IMPORTANT, GWEN,
WHEN YOU'RE DOING SOMETHING LIKE
THAT, CONSIDERING A CONTINUING
RESOLUTION TO OPERATE THE
GOVERNMENT OR THE PRESIDENT'S
REQUEST TO RAISE THE DEBT
KREILING SO SEE IF WE CAN DO
CRIMINAL IMPORTANT TO TAKE US IN
A DIFFERENT DIRECTION.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT
STRATEGY.
IS THERE A DEAL THAT COULD BE
STRUCK BETWEEN INCREASING
DISCRETIONARY SPENDING AND
INSTITUTING ENTITLEMENT REFORM?
SAVINGS THAT WAY?
>> THERE IS THE POSSIBILITY FOR
TRADING SEQUESTER RELIEF.
IN OTHER WORDS, SPEND MORE NOW,
FOR SIGNIFICANT ENTITLEMENT
CHANGES.
>> Ifill: WHERE IS THAT
CONVERSATION HAPPENING?
>> WELL, IT WILL HAPPEN FIRST IN
THE BUDGET CONFERENCE LED BY
PAUL RYAN AND PATTI MURRAY.
IT'S HAPPENED FREQUENTLY WHEN
THE SPEAKER AND I HAVE ENGAGED
WITH THE ADMINISTRATION IN ONE
OF THESE OCCASIONS IN THE PAST.
AND WE'LL HAVE THAT DISCUSSION
AGAIN.
THE PROBLEM HAS BEEN THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS BEEN
INSISTING ON A MASSIVE TAX
INCREASE AS A CONDITION FOR
DOING ANY KIND OF ENTITLEMENT
REFORM.
MY MEMBERS-- BOTH IN THE HOUSE
AND SENATE-- DON'T BELIEVE WE
HAVE THIS PROBLEM BECAUSE WE TAX
TOO LITTLE.
THEY BELIEVE WE HAVE IT BECAUSE
WE SPEND TOO MUCH AND THAT'S
BEEN A PRETTY SIGNIFICANT
DIFFERENCE OF OPINION ABOUT HOW
TO GET OUT OF DEFICIT AND DEBT.
>> Ifill: IS THERE A WAY THAT
YOU CAN MAKE YOUR PARTY--
OBVIOUSLY YOU DON'T HAVE THE
NUMBERS IN THE SENATE-- WHAT YOU
HAVE DESCRIBED AS A
CONSEQUENTIAL MINORITY IN THE
NEXT SEVERAL MONTHS, SEVERAL
YEARS WHERE IT DOESN'T SEEM TO
BE RIGHT NOW?
>> OH, I THINK WE ARE A
CONSEQUENTIAL MINORITY.
>> Ifill: EXPLAIN TO ME HOW.
>> WE CONTROL THE HOUSE AND WE
HAVE A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER IN THE
SENATE AND AN EXCELLENT CHANCE
OF TAKING THE SENATE IN 2014.
OBAMACARE, FOR EXAMPLE, THAT YOU
AND I HAVE JUST BEEN DISCUSSING
IS GOING TO BE, IN MY VIEW, THE
LARGEST AND MOST SIGNIFICANT
ISSUE IN THE TPWOUR 2014 ELECTI.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE DON'T LIKE
IT.
THEY'RE REALIZING THE
CONSEQUENCES OF IT.
THEY KNOW WHO'S RESPONSIBLE FOR
IT.
THERE'S A CLEAR DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THE TWO PARTIES ON
OBAMACARE AND THAT'S A DEBATE WE
INTEND TO HAVE WITH THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: IS THERE A DIVIDE--
AS IS POPULARLY DISCUSSED NOW--
BETWEEN THE TEA PARTY WING OF
THE PARTY AND THE MAINSTREAM
WING OF THE PARTY?
>> ONLY ON TACTICS.
ON THE ISSUES I THINK WE'RE
LARGELY UNITED.
TAKE OBAMACARE, FOR EXAMPLE,
THERE ARE NO DIVISIONS AMONG
REPUBLICANS ON OBAMACARE.
WE THINK IT WAS A MISTAKE, WE'D
ALL VOTE TO REPEAL IT IF WE
COULD.
WE HAD A BIG DEBATE ABOUT
TACTICS AND I THOUGHT LINKING
OPPOSITION TO OBAMACARE TO
SHUTTING DOWN THE GOVERNMENT--
SOMETHING PEOPLE HATE EVEN MORE
THAN OBAMACARE-- WAS NOT A SMART
STRATEGY AND I SAID SO.
I'M STILL SAYING SO.
THAT'S A BAD STRATEGY.
BUT ON THE SUBSTANCE, ON THE
MERITS, I THINK THERE'S VERY
LITTLE DIFFERENCE OF OPINION
AMONG REPUBLICANS ABOUT THE WAY
WE'D LIKE TO SEE THE COUNTRY GO.
THE DIRECTION WE'D LIKE TO TAKE.
>> Ifill: YOU REALIZE THERE
ARE STILL MEMBERS OF YOUR CAUCUS
WHO DISAGREE WITH YOU ABOUT THE
TACTICS AND PLAN TO DO IT AGAIN?
OR AT LEAST THEY SAY THEY DO.
>> A BIG MAJORITY OF MY
CONFERENCE THOUGHT THE TACK
THYSS WERE A BAD IDEA AND DON'T
INTENINTEND TO DO IT AGAIN.
>> Ifill: SENATOR McCONNELL,
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN FIND MORE OF
MY INTERVIEW WITH SENATOR
McCONNELL, INCLUDI HISNG
THOUGHTS ABOUT HIS REELECTION
CAMPAIGN AND TEA PARTY CHALLENGE
ON OUR WEBSITE.
THAT'S AT newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: TODAY'S TALKS
BETWEEN LAWMAKERS FROM BOTH
CHAMBERS AND PARTIES MARKED THE
GROUP'S FIRST FORMAL MEETING TO
NEGOTIATE DIFFERENCES ON FUNDING
THE GOVERNMENT OVER THE LONG
TERM.
THE CONFERENCE COMMITTEE WAS
FORMED IN THE AGREEMEND
THE 16-DAY PARTIAL GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN.
THE SESSION REVEALED STARK
DIFFERENCES ON TAXES, SPENDING
AND THE DEBT REMAIN.
FOR MORE, "NEWSHOUR" POLITICAL
EDITOR CHRISTINA BELLANTONI
JOINS ME NOW.
WELCOME AGAIN, CHRISTINA.
CONFERENCE COMMITTEES USED TO BE
A REGULAR FEATURE OF THE
CONGRESS BUT TNO ANYMORE.
HOW DID THIS ONE COME ABOUT?
>> WELL, WHAT YOU SAW IN THE END
TO THE SHUTDOWN IS WE WANT TO
AVOID THIS SHORT-TERM BUDGETING,
WE WANT TO STOP BUDGETING
SEVERAL WEEKS AT A TIME SO LET'S
PUT IN PLACE A BUDGET THAT'S A
YEAR-LONG PLAN.
THE SENATE HAS ITS PLAN, IT'S
CONTROLLED BY DEMOCRATS, THE
HOUSE HAS ITS PLAN CONTROLLED BY
REPUBLICANS SO THIS IS A WAY TO
GET A SMALL GROUP OF PEOPLE
TOGETHER IN THEORY TO PRIVATELY
WORK OUT THOSE DIFFERENCES AND
COME UP WITH A COMPROMISE.
BUT, AS YOU NOTED, THERE ARE A
LOT OF VERY STARK DIFFERENCES.
ANOTHER BIG DIFFERENCE IS THAT
YOU USED TO SEE PEOPLE OPERATING
ON THESE LONG-TERM ONE-TERM
BUDGETS.
THEY'VE ACTUALLY DONE 16
CONTINUING RESOLUTIONS OVER THE
LAST FEW YEARS.
THEY HAVEN'T ON RATED UNDER A
FULL BUDGET SINCE OCTOBER 1,
2010.
THEY'VE BEEN OPERATING UNDER
CONTINUING RESOLUTIONS THAT ARE
JUST SHORT-TERM UNCERTAIN WAYS
FOR PEOPLE TO FIND OUT HOW
THEY'LL FUND THEIR AGENCY.
>> Woodruff: ALMOST THREE
YEARS.
CHRISTINA, HOW DO MEMBERS LINE
UP ON THIS?
IT'S NOT JUST REPUBLICANS UNITED
VERSUS DEMOCRATS UNITED?
>> NOT EXACTLY.
THERE'S 29 MEMBERS.
YOU'VE GOT FOUR HOUSE
REPUBLICANS, THREE HOUSE
DEMOCRATS AND THEN EVERY MEMBER
OF THE SENATE BUDGET COMMIT
COMMITTEE WHICH IS INTERESTING,
IT'S A LITTLE LOPSIDED TO HAVE
THE SENATE.
AND IT'S NOT A CLEAR DIVIDE
BETWEEN THE DEMOCRATS.
YOU'VE GOT SOME DEMOCRATS THAT
ARE IN FAVOR OF SEEING SOME
CHANGES TO ENTITLEMENT PROGRAMS
LIKE MEDICARE AND SOCIAL
SECURITY.
YOU'VE GOT SOME LIBERAL
DEMOCRATS WHO ARE SAYING
ABSOLUTELY NO CHANGES TO THOSE
THINGS, WE WILL FIGHT TOOTH AND
NAIL AGAINST THAT.
THE REPUBLICANS ARE ALMOST
UNANIMOUSLY OPPOSED TO TAX
INCREASES.
THEY ARE UNANIMOUSLY OPPOSED TO
TAX INCREASES.
THAT'S WHAT YOU HEARD TODAY.
ANOTHER THING TO POINT OUT ABOUT
THEM IS THAT EVERY SINGLE
REPUBLICAN ON THE COMMITTEE
VOTED FOR PAUL RYAN'S BUDGET.
HE'S THE BUDGET COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN, THIS IS A BUDGET THAT
CUTS TAXES, REDUCES THE DEFICIT,
BUT ALSO MAKES BIG CHANGE TO
ENTITLEMENT PROGRAMS.
THE DEMOCRATS ON THIS PANEL ALL
VOTED FOR PATTI MURRAY'S BUDGET.
SHE'S THE BUDGET CHAIRMAN IN THE
SENATE AND THAT BUDGET WOULD
RAISE TAXES BY ALMOST A TRILLION
DOLLARS AND LOOKS AT SOME OTHER
WAYS TO CUT THE DEFICIT BUT NOT
BY NEARLY AS MUCH.
>> Woodruff: GIVEN THAT
THEY'RE SO FAR APART, DID YOU
GATE GLIMMER OF WHAT JUST
EMERGED FROM THIS AS WE HEARD IN
GWEN'S INTERVIEW WITH SENATOR
McCONNELL, THE REPUBLICAN
MAJORITY LEADER.
HE TALKED ABOUT THERE MAY BE A
TRADEOFF, THE SEQUESTER CUTS
VERSUS SOMETHING CUT -L
ENTITLEMENTS.
>> YOU HEARD A COMMON THEME
TODAY THAT THE SEQUESTER IS
CRUDE AND NONE OF US LIKE IT AND
IN ITS SECOND YEAR-- WHICH IS
WHAT WOULD NAP THIS CONFERENCE
COMMITTEE DOESN'T WORK AND THERE
ISN'T A LONG TERM BUDGET-- IT
WOULD BE HARSHER.
SO I TALKED TO AIDES IN BOTH
COMMITTEES TODAY THAT SAID,
WELL, THERE ARE SOME THINGS WE
CAN DO.
AMONG THEM, LOOKING AT VERY
SMALL CHANGES LIKE THINGS TO
CHANGE THE WAY THE BLOCK GRANT
SYSTEM IS FUNDED WHERE YOU'RE
GIVING COMMUNITIES SMALL AMOUNTS
OF MONEY FOR THINGS.
EVEN THE SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM, THE FOOD
STAMP PROGRAM WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
WITH THE FARM BILL, THAT'S
ANOTHER AREA WHERE THEY SEE CUTS
RATHER THAN HAVE THE SEQUESTER
ACROSS-THE-BOARD CUT THEY'RE
LOOKING AT SMALL TARGETED
THINGS.
NOW THE DEMOCRATS, OF COURSE,
HAVE PUSHED TAX INCREASES AND
THEY'VE TALKED ABOUT MAYBE IF
YOU ENDED SOME OF THE CORPORATE
TAX LOOPHOLES, MAYBE END THE
OFFSHORE TAX HAVENS THAT MIGHT
BE SOMETHING REPUBLICANS COULD
GET ON BOARD FOR.
BUT WHAT YOU HEARD IN THE
CONSENSUS WAS THAT THEY REALLY
WANT MORE STABILITY IN THE
BUDGET PROCESS.
THEY CAN'T KEEP DOING THIS
SHORT-TERM THING, THEY DON'T
WANT TO HAVE ANOTHER SHUTDOWN SO
EVERYONE SAID WE'RE HOPEFUL EVEN
THOUGH WE'RE NOT -- WE'RE PRETTY
CONFIDENT THERE'S NOT GOING TO
BE A BIG GRAND BARGAIN.
>> Woodruff: EXPECTATIONS
GOING INTO THIS ARE PRETTY LOW.
DID THEY SEEM TO -- ARE THE
SIGNALS THEY'RE GETTING THAT
THEY WANT TO AVOID FAILURE OR
WHAT?
>> YES.
THEY DEFINITELY WANT TO TRY TO
AVOID FAILURE.
THEIR DEADLINE IS DECEMBER 13.
THEY'RE NOT MEETING AGAIN UNTIL
NOVEMBER 13.
BUT WHAT'S HAPPENING BEHIND THE
SCENES IS THAT THE MEMBERS ARE
MEETING INDIVIDUALLY.
YOU'VE GOT THE STAFFS WORKING
TOGETHER.
THEY HAVE TWO VERY DETAILED
DOCUMENTS THAT THEY HAVE TO PUT
TOGETHER AND FIND CONSENSUS ON.
SO IT'S ABOUT THE BIG PICTURE
ITEMS.
IF THEY CAN COME TO AN AGREEMENT
THEY HAVE TIME.
NOW, THE GOVERNMENT IS FUNDED
THROUGH JANUARY 15, SO EVEN IF
THEY MISS THAT DECEMBER 13
DEADLINE, THERE'S POSSIBILITY OF
WIGGLE ROOM THERE.
>> Woodruff: BUT THEY KNOW
THERE ARE CONSEQUENCES IF THEY
CAN'T COME TO SOME KIND OF AN
AGREEMENT.
SPELL OUT WHAT THE CONSEQUENCES
ARE.
>> WELL, THE SEQUESTER KICKING
IN INTO ITS SECOND YEAR, THESE
MORE HARSH ACROSS-THE-BOARD
CUTS, MILITARY SPENDING, EVERY
AGENCY HAS SEEN A CUT.
THERE WAS FLEXIBILITY IN AGENCY
IT IS FIRST YEAR SO THEY COULD
USE MONEY FROM THE YEAR BEFORE,
THIS IS THE HARSH INTENSE CUT.
THEN YOU ALSO HAVE THE
FLEXIBILITY OF THE DEBT CEILING
BECAUSE THEY HAVE UNTIL FEBRUARY
7 FOR THAT TO HIT AGAIN, IT'S
POSSIBLE THEY COULD EXTEND IT
FURTHER, DO A SHORT-TERM
EXTENSION BUT PEOPLE DON'T WANT
TO DO THAT.
EVERY SINGLE LAWMAKER ON THIS
COMMITTEE SAID "THIS IS NOT WHAT
WE WANT TO SEE AGAIN."
>> Woodruff: AND WE JUST HEARD
SENATOR McCONNELL SAY HE
DOESN'T INTEND TO SEE NOT ONLY A
SHUT DOWN OF THE GOVERNMENT BUT
A BREACH OF THE DEBT CEILING.
SO YOU'RE SAYING YOU DO HEAR
GLIMMERS THAT MAYBE THEY CAN
PULL THIS OFF DESPITE ALL THE
FORCES WORKING AGAINST THEM?
>> RIGHT.
AND THE DEMOCRATS HAVE BEEN
TALKING ABOUT THE FACT THAT THE
DEFICIT AS WE REPORTED EARLIER
THAT THE DEFICIT ISOMIN CG DOWN.
IT'S UNDER A TRILLION FOR THE
FIRST TIME AND YOU'LL HEAR THEM
TALK A LOT ABOUT THAT.
WELL, WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO DO
SMART BUDGETING, IT'S THE
FASTEST RATE GOING DOWN SINCE
THE END OF WORLD WAR II AND THE
REPUBLICANS ARE SAYING, WELL,
OKAY, LET'S KEEP TALKING ABOUT
AND THAT AND FIGURE OUTRE WE
CAN COME TO AN AGREEMENT.
>> Woodruff: CHRISTINA PLAN
TONY, OUR POLITICAL EDITOR.
THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW TO THE NAGGING,
TROUBLING QUESTIONS ABOUT YOUTH
TRADEOFFS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: THE N.F.L. IS ALREADY
PLAYING UNDER A NEW SPOTLIGHT ON
CONCUSSIONS.
DAYS BEFORE THE SEASON BEGAN,
THE LEAGUE AGREED TO A $765
MILLION SETTLEMENT WITH 4,500
FORMER PLAYERS.
THEY'D CHARGED THAT OWNERS
CONCEALED INFORMATION ON THE
EFFECTS OF REPEATED HEAD
INJURIES.
THAT HISTORY WAS THE FOCUS OF A
PBS "FRONTLINE" INVESTIGATION
THAT AIRED EARLIER THIS MONTH ON
THE LINKS BETWEEN HEAD INJURIES
AND BRAIN DISEASE.
NOW, A NEW STUDY EXPLORES THE
RISKS FOR ATHLETES WELL BEFORE
THEY REACH THEIR COLLEGE AND
PROFESSIONAL YEARS.
THE REPORT BY THE INSTITUTE OF
MEDICINE-- A NON-PROFIT,
INDEPENDENT ORGANIZATION--
FOCUSES ON SPORTS-RELATED
CONCUSSIONS IN YOUTH, FROM
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL THROUGH
ADOLESCENCE.
ONE MEMBER OF THE PANEL, DR.
FREDERICK RIVARA-- OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON SCHOOL
OF MEDICINE-- POINTED TO A KEY
PROBLEM: THE LACK OF DATA FOR
THIS AGE GROUP.
>> THERE'S ESSENTIALLY NOTHING
KNOWN ABOUT CONCUSSIONS IN
ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AND MIDDLE
AGED KIDS.
AND THAT'S REALLY WHY THERE'S A
NEED FOR MORE RESEARCH IN THIS
AREA.
IT PROBABLY MAKES SENSE TO
EVERYONE IN THE ROOM THAT
GUIDELINES FOR COLLEGE KIDS
DON'T APPLY TO FIVE-YEAR-OLDS.
>> Brown: BUT SOME THINGS ARE
KNOWN.
THE STUDY FINDS THAT BESIDES
FOOTBALL, SPORTS PUTTING
CHILDREN AT HIGHEST RISK INCLUDE
ICE HOCKEY, LACROSSE AND SOCCER
FOR BOTH BOYS AND GIRLS.
HELMET DESIGN DOES NOT
NECESSARILY REDUCE THE RISK OF
INJURY, DESPITE RECENT EFFORTS
TO ENHANCE HEADGEAR.
AND A CULTURE OF RESISTANCE
MAKES YOUNG ATHLETES LESS LIKELY
TO REPORT CONCUSSION SYMPTOMS,
SO THEY CAN KEEP PLAYING.
THE RESEARCHERS CALL FOR THE
YOUTH SPORTS COMMUNITY TO HANDLE
CONCUSSIONS AS SERIOUS INJURIES,
REQUIRING FULL RECOVERY.
AND IT'S CLEAR PARENTS ARE
PAYING ATTENTION.
A NEW MARIST POLL SAYS ONE IN
THREE AMERICANS ARE LESS LIKELY
TO LET THEIR CHILDREN PLAY
FOOTBALL DUE TO CONCERNS OVER
HEAD INJURIES.
WE HEAR FROM THREE PEOPLE WHO
ARE INVOLVED IN ALL OF THIS.
DOCTOR ROBERT GRAHAM, OF THE
GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY,
WAS THE CHAIR OF THE GROUP THAT
PRODUCED TODAY'S REPORT.
FRED McCRARY IS A FORMER PRO
BOWL FULLBACK WHO PLAYED IN THE
N.F.L. FOR 11 SEASONS ENDING IN
2007.
HE NOW COACHES HIS SONS WHO PLAY
YOUTH FOOTBALL.
HE ALSO WAS A PLAINTIFF IN THE
LAWSUIT AGAINST THE N.F.L.
AND TAMARA McLEOD, AN ATHLETIC
TRAINER WHO WORKS WITH SCHOOLS
AND RESEARCHES CONCUSSIONS.
SHE'S WITH A.T. STILL UNIVERSITY
IN ARIZONA AND WAS A REVIEWER OF
TODAY'S REPORT.
ROBERT GRAHAM, I WANT TO START
WITH YOU AND PICK UP ON JUST
THIS QUESTION OF WHAT IS AND
ISN'T KNOWN.
WE KNOW THAT CONCUSSIONS ARE
IMPORTANT EVENTS.
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE
LONG-TERM EFFECTS, ESPECIALLY,
WHEN IT COMES TO YOUNG PEOPLE?
>> WELL, I THINK TO PICK UP ON
THE DOCTOR'S COMMENT AS WE CAME
INTO THIS CONVERSATION, YOU
MIGHT SAY WE KNOW AN INCREASING
AMOUNT ABOUT THE NUMERATOR.
WE KNOW MORE AND MORE ABOUT THE
INCIDENTS OF HOW MANY
CONCUSSIONS ARE REPORTED IN
DIFFERENT SPORTS AND DIFFERENT
AGENTS.
WHAT WE DON'T SNOW THE
DENOMINATOR.
WE DON'T KNOW WHETHER OR NOT
WE'RE GETTING ALL OF THE REPORTS
AND SPECIFICALLY RESEARCH NEEDS
TO BE TAKEN ON A LONGITUDINAL
BASIS.
IF SOMETHING HAPPENS TO SOMEBODY
AT THE AGE OF SEVEN, WHAT ARE
THE IMPLICATIONS AT THE AGE OF
TEN?
AT THE AGE   2061?
WE DON'T HAVE ANY OF THAT.
>> THIS HA S BECAUSE THERE
HASN'T BEEN ATTENTION PAID TO
CHILDREN AT THIS AGE?
>> I THINK WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS
IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS, TWO
YEARS, AN INCREASING AMOUNT OF
ATTENTION SAYING THIS MAY BE A
SERIOUS PROBLEM.
IT'S NOT AN AREA IF YOU GO BACK
TEN YEARS THAT YOU FIND AN AWFUL
LOT OF RESEARCH.
>> Brown: LET ME ASK YOU ABOUT
ONE SPECIFIC THAT I THINK MIGHT
SURPRISE A LOT OF PEOPLE.
HELMETS.
>> RIGHT.
>> Brown: ONE OF THE THINGS
THE STUDY SAYS IS THAT HELMETS
MAY BE GOOD FOR A LOT OF THINGS
BUT THEY DON'T HELP WHEN IT
COMES TO CONCUSSIONS.
>> REMEMBER, THIS COMMITTEE HAD
TO DEAL WITH EVIDENCE, PEER VIEW
VIEWED SCIENTIFIC STUDIED, VERY
HIGH BAR.
BUT WHEN YOU LOOK AT THAT, YOU
DON'T FIND ANY EVIDENCE THAT ANY
HELMET ACTUALLY REDUCING THE
INCIDENTS OF CONCUSSION.
YOU STILL NEED TO WEAR HELMETS
BECAUSE THEY DO PROTECT AGAINST
SKULL FRACTURES, SOFT TISSUE
ISSUES CUTS BUT THERE'S NO
EVIDENCE OUT THERE THAT IS
COMPELLING THAT SAYS IF YOU WEAR
THIS HELMET YOU WILL HAVE A
LOWER INCIDENCE OF CONCUSSIONS.
>> Brown: FRED McCRARY, I'D
LIKE TO BRING YOU INTO THIS, YOU
EXPERIENCED CONCUSSIONS, MANY OF
THEM I GATHER.
ONE OF THE THING THIS IS REPORT
CITES IS THAT THE CULTURE OF
SPORT, THE WARRIOR CULTURE OF
SPORT, AND THAT'S SOMETHING YOU
EXPERIENCED FIRSTHAND, RIGHT?
TELL US A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THAT,
HOW IT PLAYS INTO CONCUSSIONS?
>> IT PLAYS A GREAT ROLE INTO
CONCUSSIONS SIMPLY BECAUSE THIS:
WHEN YOU GET A CONCUSSION, IT'S
MORE ABOUT THE KIDS -- FOR ME
IT'S ABOUT MY CHILDREN,
PROTECTING MY CHILDREN.
IF I CAN GO OUT AND PROTECT MY
CHILDREN AND GET EDUCATED ON IT,
I'VE DONE MY JOB.
I KNOW WHAT IT'S DONE TO ME.
I'VE HAD HUNDREDS, PROBABLY OF
CONCUSSIONS, WHAT THEY CONSIDER
CONCUSSIONS TODAY, I'VE HAD
HUNDREDS AND FOR ME TO EDUCATE
THE YOUTH ON IT AND TO GIVE THEM
MY EXPERIENCES, I THINK I'VE
DONE A GREAT JOB OF IT.
>> Brown: IN YOUR EXPERIENCE
THAT THE N.F.L. AND WHAT YOU SEE
NOW TODAY IN A COLLEGE LEVEL,
EVEN BEFORE WE GET DOWN THE
YOUNG KIDS, IS THERE MORE
AWARENESS OR IS THERE STILL A
SENSE THAT THE PLAYER SHOULD GO
BACK IN THE GAME?
YOU KNOW, YOU'VE GOT TO GET BACK
IN THE GAME EVEN IF YOU'RE HURT?
>> LET ME TELL YOU THIS.
>> YOU KNOW, I THINK IT STARTS
AT THE TOP WITH THE N.F.L.
IT GOES FROM N.F.L. WHEN N.F.L.
WAS SAYING IT'S ONGOING STUDIES,
ONGOING STUDIES.
SO WHY WOULD THE COLLEGES DO IT?
WHY WOULD HIGH SCHOOLS DO IT?
WHY WOULD LITTLE LEAGUES DO IT?
THERE WAS NO NEED SINCE IT WAS
SO MANY ONGOING STUDIES FOR THE
N.F.L.
SO WHY WASTE YOUR TIME, WHY
WASTE YOUR MONEY?
IT STARTS AT THE TOP AND FALLS
DOWN IN MINUTE.
WHAT WAS YOUR QUESTION AGAIN?
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
>> Brown: MY QUESTION WAS
ABOUT WHETHER THAT CULTURE OF
PUSHING PEOPLE BACK INTO THE
GAME EVEN IF THEY'VE ALREADY HAD
A CONCUSSION STILL EXISTS.
>> PROBABLY NOT AS MUCH NOW.
I'M PRETTY SURE IT'S VERY, VERY
LITTLE NOW BECAUSE SO MUCH HAS
BEEN MADE OF IT.
IT'S BEEN BROUGHT TO THE LIGHT
FINALLY.
BUT BACK WHEN I WAS PLAYING
ABSOLUTELY.
YOU WEREN'T ALLOWED TO GET HURT.
THAT WASN'T JUST ALLOWED.
YOU GET YOUR BUTT BACK IN THE
GAME, GIVE HIM SOME SMELLING
SALTS, HE'S FINE, PUT HIM BACK
IN.
BECAUSE A LOT OF TIMES THEY HAVE
NOBODY ELSE.
THEY SAY "WE'RE TRYING TO WIN A
GAME, YOU'RE FIGHTING YOUR YOUR
TEAMMATES, YOU'RE FIGHTING FOR
YOUR JOB.
YOU WAITED ALL YOUR LIFE TO
BECOME AN N.F.L. PLAYER.
NOTHING'S GOING TO STOP YOU FROM
GOING THAT INTO THAT GAME."
SO YOU LIE ABOUT IT, SAY YOUR
FINE TO GET BACK IN.
>> Brown: LET ME ASK TAMARA
McLEEED YOU.
WHEN YOU'RE DEALING WITH YOUNGER
HIGH SCHOOL AND DOWN TO YOUNGER
CHILDREN, HOW MUCH TODAY ARE
COACHES, TEAM DOCTORS AND OTHERS
AWARE?
IN OTHER WORDS, WHO'S REALLY
RESPONSIBLE AND TAKING
RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONCUSSIONS?
>> SURE I THINK IT VARIES
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT.
AT THE HIGH SCHOOL LEVEL ABOUT
HALF OF THE SCHOOLS IN THE
COUNTRY HAVE A LICENSED ATHLETIC
TRAINER WHO IS THERE WORKING
UNDER THE DIRECTION OF A
PHYSICIAN.
I THINK IN MANY STATES THE HIGH
SCHOOL COACHES ARE REQUIRED TO
DO SOME PRESEASON CONCUSSION
EDUCATION.
SO THERE'S DEFINITELY AN
INCREASE IN AWARENESS AT THAT
LEVEL.
WHEN WE GET YOUNGER THAN HIGH
SCHOOL, THE YOUTH SPORTS, THE
CLUB SPORTS, THE COMMUNITY
LEAGUES, I THINK THAT'S WHERE WE
SEE A LOT OF VARIATIONS BECAUSE
THERE AREN'T THE SAME MANDATES
THAT SOME OF THE SCHOLASTIC
ASSOCIATIONS HAVE REGARDING
EDUCATION FOR COACHES, PARENTS,
OR ATHLETES.
>> Brown: HAVE YOU SEEN
SPECIFIC CHANGES IN SPORTS OR IN
THE WAY SPORTS ARE CONDUCTED FOR
YOUNG PEOPLE?
IN OTHER WORDS, NOT ALLOWING
CERTAIN KINDS OF ACTIVITIES?
IS THAT TAKING HOLD?
>> I HAVEN'T SEEN THAT
PERSONALLY.
I THINK'S DEFINITELY A LOT OF
BENEFITS TO PARTICIPATING IN
YOUTH SPORTS AND WE DON'T WANT
TO SEND THE WRONG MESSAGE IN
SAYING KIDS SHOULD NOT BE
PARTICIPATING.
WHAT WE REALLY WANT IS TO
ENCOURAGE YOUTH LEAGUES,
PARENTS, AND COACHES TO BECOME
EDUCATED, TO UNDERSTAND WHAT A
CONCUSSION IS SO THAT THEY CAN
RECOGNIZE IF THEIR CHILD HAS HAD
A CONCUSSION AND SEEK
APPROPRIATE MEDICAL CARE.
>> Brown: ROBERT GRAHAM, PICK
UP ON THAT.
BECAUSE THE PANEL IS NOT GOING
SO FAR AS TO CALL FOR PARTICULAR
CHANGES OR BANS, CORRECT?
>> THAT IS CORRECT.
>> Brown: SO WHAT DO YOU THINK
IS THE TAKE-HOME MESSAGE FOR YOU
AS A DOCTOR BUT ALSO FOR PARENTS
LISTENING?
>> I THINK IT COME BACK TO THE
MAIN RECOMMENDATION THAT WAS
NUMBER SIX.
IT'S NOT A RESEARCH
RECOMMENDATION.
IT THESE DO WITH THIS CULTURE
CHANGE AND CULTURE OF
RESISTANCE.
THE TAKE HOME MESSAGE THERE FOR
US IS IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT FOR
PARENTS, PLAYERS, COACHES TO
RECOGNIZE THAT THIS IS AN INJURY
THAT IS SIGNIFICANT AND IT NEEDS
TO BE RESPONDED TO.
IF A PLAYER IS OUT ON THE FIELD
AND BROKE THEIR LEGGE LEG YOU WT
TAKE THEM TO THE SIDELINE, TAPE
THEM UP AND PUT IT BACK IN.
YOU NEED TO REMOVE THE PLAYER
FROM PLAY, TREAT THEM,
REHABILITATE THEM, AND THE
MESSAGE TO THE PARENTS IS BE
SENSITIVE TO IT, TO THE PLAYERS.
DON'T TRY TO PLAY THROUGH IT.
YOU'RE NOT RUNNING OUT ON YOUR
TEAMMATES.
TO THE COACHES THIS IS SOMETHING
WHERE IT'S PART OF YOUR
RESPONSIBILITY NOT ONLY TO
DEVELOP THESE ATHLETES AND HELP
THEM BECOME REALLY PROFICIENT AT
THE SPORT BUT ALSO PROTECT THEM
AND MAKE SURE SOMETHING DOESN'T
HAPPEN THAT HARMS THEM ON DOWN
THE LINE.
>> Brown: SO FRED McCRARY
LET ME BRING YOU BACK IN.
HERE YOU ARE COACHING YOUR OWN
SONS AND OTHER YOUNG CHILDREN, I
GUESS, I WAS GOING TO SAY YOUNG
MEN BUT THEY'RE EVEN STILL
CHILDREN.
WHAT DO YOU TELL THEM?
I MEAN, IS THERE PART OF YOU
FIRST OF ALL THAT WISHES THEY
WERE NOT PLAYING FOOTBALL?
>> A PART OF ME WISHES THEY
WOULDN'T.
I WOULD RATHER THEY PLAY GOLF
BUT SINCE I'M THEIR HERO AND
THEY WANT TO BE LIKE ME, IT'S MY
JOB TO TEACH THEM THE PROPER
WAY.
SO THAT'S WHY I COACH THEM.
IF I CAN TEACH THEM THE PROPER
WAY TO BLOCK, THE PROPER TRY
TACKLE, THAT HELPS LOWER THE
RISK OF THEM GETTING
CONCUSSIONS.
AND WE HAVE ANOTHER THING ON OUR
TEAM IT'S CALLED A GUARDIAN CAP
WHICH WE PUT OVER THE TOP OF
THEIR HELMET TO REALLY PROTECT
AND LOWER THE IMPACT, LESSEN THE
IMPACT OF THEIR COLLISIONS.
LIKE KIDS' NECKS AREN'T STRONG
ENOUGH.
THEIR HEADS, THEIR BRAINS AREN'T
STRONG ENOUGH.
AND THEIR HELL SYSTEM SO HEAVY
SO WHEN THEY FALL THEY HIT THE
GROUND AND THEY CONCUSS.
SO IF THEY CAN -- IF I CAN DO
THAT BY PROTECTING THEM WITH
GUARDIAN CAP, WHICH IS A VERY,
VERY WELL PUT TOGETHER ITEM THAT
GOES OVER THE TOP OF YOUR
HELMET, IT WORKS, FOLKS, TRUST
ME.
IT WORKS.
MY KIDS HAVE HAD NO CONCUSSIONS,
THANK GOD.
EVEN THE ONES THAT I COACH.
>> Brown: TAMARA McLEOD, WE
CITED THIS STUDY BY PARENTS,
MANY OF THEM NOW WORRIED ABOUT
HAVING THEIR KIDS PLAY FOOTBALL
AND OTHER SPORTS.
DO YOU SENSE THAT TAKING HOLD IN
ANY WAY?
>> I HAVEN'T REALLY SEEN IT
PERSONALLY HERE.
A LOT OF THESE T HIGH SCHOOLS
AND YOUTH LEAGUES WE WORK WITH
STILL HAVE VERY FULL ROSTERS.
THE PARENTS ARE DEFINITELY
ASKING MORE QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
ATHLETIC TRAINERS, ENSURING THEY
HAVE UP-TO-DATE INFORMATION AND
I THINK THAT'S PART OF THE KEY
IS NOT TO SHY AWAY FROM SPORTS
BUT EMPOWER YOURSELF WITH
KNOWLEDGE ABOUT HOW TO RECOGNIZE
AND HANDLE THESE INJURIES.
>> Brown: DO YOU SEE THIS AS A
GROWING FIELD FOR PEOPLE LIKE
YOURSELF?
I MEAN, THE RESEARCH WHERE WE
STARTED THIS CONVERSATION, NOT A
LOT IS KNOWN ABOUT PEOPLE OF
THIS AGE.
>> YEAH.
AND I THINK THE RESEARCH IS
GOING TO START TO TRICKLE DOWN.
THE MORE WE LEARN ABOUT THESE
YOUNGER KIDS, THE DEVELOPMENT
WITH OR WITHOUT CONCUSSIONS AND
HOW BEST TO MANAGE THESE
INJURIES IS GOING TO BE
IMPORTANT AND JUST LIKE WE'VE
STARTED TO LEARN MORE ABOUT
RECOVERY IN COLLEGE ATHLETES AND
HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETES, THE YOUTH
SPORTS ATHLETES IS THE NEXT
FRONTIER OF CONCUSSION RESEARCH.
>> Brown: AND WITH YOU ROBERT
GRAHAM, BRIEFLY, WHAT IS NEXT?
WHAT DOES YOUR GROUP WANT TO SEE
HAPPEN NEXT IN TERMS OF
RESEARCH?
>> WELL, I THINK GROW BACK TO
THE RECOMMENDATIONS.
WE KEPT THEM VERY BRIEF.
THERE'S A RESEARCH AGENDA THERE
THAT WE HOPE THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, CENTERS
FOR DISEASE CONTROL WILL START
CARRYING OUT.
THERE IS A SUGGESTION THAT YOU
MAY BE ABLE TO CHANGE SOME OF
THE RULES AND STYLES OF PLAY TO
MAKE IT EASIER FOR YOUNG
ATHLETES NOT TO SUFFER
CONCUSSIONS.
>> Brown: RULES AS IN --
>> AN EXCELLENT EXAMPLE FROM THE
REPORT IN CANADA ONE OF THE
YOUTH HOCKEY ASSOCIATIONS SAID,
YOU KNOW, BELOW A CERTAIN AGE
CATEGORY WE WON'T HAVE BODY
CHECKING.
DI DID THAT AND THE RATE OF
CONCUSSIONS WENT DOWN.
>> Brown: SO YOU'RE SUGGESTING
OTHER LEAGUES LOOK AT THAT.
>> TAKE A LOOK AT THAT.
AND LAST IS THIS WHOLE CULTURE
OF RESISTANCE FROM PLAYERS,
PARENTS, COACHES.
THIS IS A SERIOUS THING.
THIS IS SOMETHING TO BE TAKEN
SERIOUSLY.
IT'S PART OF THE BACKGROUND OF
SPORTS.
WE DON'T WANT TO SEE PEOPLE QUIT
PLAYING SPORTS.
THERE'S RISKS TO A SEDENTARY
LIFE-STYLE BUT PLAY SMART.
>> Brown: ALL RIGHT, ROBERT
GRAHAM, FRED McCRARY, TAMARA
McLEEED YOU, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: PART MEMOIR, PART
HOMAGE TO GROWING UP IN NEW YORK
CITY.
ONE TIME "NEWSHOUR" CONTRIBUTOR
AND AUTHOR ROGER ROSENBLATT'S
NEW BOOK IS "THE BOY DETECTIVE:
A NEW YORK CHILDHOOD".
I SPOKE WITH HIM A LITTLE
EARLIER TODAY.
ROGER ROSENBLATT, WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Pelley: IS SO THE BOOK "THE
BOY DETECTIVE, A NEW YORK
CHILDHOOD" THIS IS A MEMOIR BUT
ALSO A LOVE LETTER TO NEW YORK
CITY, THAT PART OF MANHATTAN
WHERE YOU GREW UP.
>> IT WAS NEITHER HERE NOR THERE
AROUND GRAMERCY PARK WHERE I
GREW UP AND I NEVER FELT
COMFORTABLE WITH THE COMPLACENCY
OF THE PARK AND THE SAFETY OF
THE PARK SO AS A KID I WOULD
JUST WANDER AROUND AND FOLLOW
PEOPLE BECAUSE I WAS A
DETECTIVE.
AND I PUT MY CAP GUN IN MY SHIRT
BECAUSE KIDS DIDN'T WEAR SUIT
JACKETS SO I LOOKED AS IF I WAS
CARRYING AROUND A MANGO AND
PEOPLE WOULD TURN AFTERNOON.
AND TO FOLLOW THEM CLOSELY
OTHERWISE IF THEY DIDN'T KNOW
THEY WERE BEING FOLLOWED NOBODY
WOULD AND THEN WHEN THEY TURNED
AROUND THEY'D LOOKED PERTURBED
AT SEEING A KID FOLLOWING THEM
WITH A MANGO IN HIS SHIRT.
>> Woodruff: (LAUGHS)
SO THIS WHOLE NOTION OF BEING A
DETECTIVE, THAT WAS FOR REAR
REAL, WHAT WAS THE YOU DID AS A
KID.
>> THAT WAS MY JOB.
IF I HEARD OF A CRIME IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD I WOULD GO
INVESTIGATE IT.
THE POLICE WOULD LEAVE ME ALONE
AND THEN I'D COME HOME AND LOOK
UNDER MY MAGNIFYING GLASS FOR A
CLUE.
IT WAS MY WAY-- EVEN THOUGH I
DIDN'T KNOW IT THEN-- OF
EXPRESSING INTEREST IN THE WORLD
AND TRYING TO SOLVE PROBLEMS
THAT SEEMED MYSTERIOUS.
>> Woodruff: YOU WRITE ABOUT
HOW AS A YOUNG MAN WHEN THERE
WAS SOMETHING YOU DIDN'T
UNDERSTAND IT WAS BECAUSE YOU
FELT YOU DIDN'T HAVE THE WORDS
TO DEAL WITH IT.
AS A GROWN MAN WALKING BACK
THROUGH YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD, YOU
FOUND YOUR WORDS.
>> THAT'S INTERESTING THING YOU
HIT THAT.
THAT'S A KEY PASSAGE.
AND THE SADNESSES OF A FAMILY--
AND EVERY FAMILY HAS ONE, AND
OURS DID TOO-- CHILDREN DON'T
HAVE THE WORDS FOR THIS.
AND I BEGAN TO WONDER AND
SPECULATE IN THE VARIOUS
SPECULATIONS IN THE BOOK WHETHER
I HAD PURSUED A LIFE OF WORDS IN
ORDER TO EXPRESS UNDERSTANDING.
>> Woodruff: IN FACT, I FOUND
THE QUOTE WHERE YOU WERE WRITING
ABOUT A YOUNG WOMAN WHO HAD BEEN
MURDERED, A WOMAN WHO WORKED IN
A TOBACCO SHOP AND YOU WRITE
"SHE UNDERSTOOD INTUITIVELY THAT
I'D BECOME A WRITER BECAUSE NO
ONE WOULD LOVE ME."
DID YOU MEAN TO WRITE THAT?
>> YEAH, WELL WHAT I DO IS -- AS
YOU KNOW I VARY THE IDEAS THAT
COME OR VARY THE KINDS OF
SECTIONS AND I HAVE EDGAR ALLEN
POE ACTUALLY SAYING THAT.
AND IT'S POE WHO SAID "BECAUSE
NOBODY WOULD LOVE ME."
BECAUSE THERE WAS A STORY THAT
POE PURSUED THIS WOMAN WHO WAS
MARY ROGERS WHOM HE TRANSLATES
TO MARIE ROGET IN "THE MYSTERY
OF MARIE ROGGE" SO I GO INTO A
BOOK AND HAVE THE CHARACTER
SPEAK.
>> Pelley: IT'S INTERESTING.
YOU MOVE FROM BEING A DETECTIVE
TO CERTAIN FLASH BACKS TO YOUR
CHILDHOOD TO DEAL WITH WHAT W
WHAT YOU'VE DONE IN YOUR LIFE AS
AN ADULT.
I WANT TO ASK YOU TO READ
SOMETHING, ROGER, FROM THE BOOK,
WHERE YOU TALK ABOUT BEING A
WRITER AND BEING A DETECTIVE.
>> SURE.
AND I DO THIS, AS YOU KNOW,
THROUGHOUT THE BOOK.
I THINK THAT THEY HAVE SIMILAR
THINGS, INCLUDING CODES OF HONOR
THAT OUGHT TO BE FOLLOWED.
BUT THIS WAS "EASY ENOUGH TO SAY
THAT YOU CAN BE BOTH A WRITER
AND A DETECTIVE.
A LOT HARDER TO PULL IT OFF.
THE ONE THING THEY BOTH
REQUIRE-- THE WRITER AND
DETECTIVE-- IS THE DESIRE TO SEE
WHAT IS NOT THERE AND TO MAKE IT
AS ONCE ORDERLY AND BEAUTIFUL.
AS IN A FLOWERTOR ANSWER TO A
MATH PROBLEM."
>> Woodruff: AND YOU LAY OUT
IN THAT THE CHALLENGE OF WRITING
A MEMOIR AND YOU AND I WERE JUST
SAYING YOU'VE REALLY COME UP
WITH A NEW -- A DIFFERENT WAY OF
THINKING ABOUT WHAT A MEMOIR IS.
>> I HAVE, JUDY.
AND IT TOOK A WHILE.
IT'S A FORM IN WHICH I AM NOW
QUITE COMFORTABLE.
THE BOOK WILL BE CALLED A MEMOIR
BECAUSE THERE ARE LIMITED
CATEGORIES TO DISCUSS LITERATURE
AND, OF COURSE, IT IS TECHNICAL,
BUT I USE MEMORY DIFFERENTLY.
I USE MEMORY TO FORTIFY AN IDEA.
THESE BOOKS -- THE LAST ONE,
THIS ONE, AND A COUPLE THAT ARE
IN THE PIPELINE ARE MEDITATIONS
ON SUBJECTS IN WHICH I USE MY
CHILD HAOLD AS INFORMATION TO
SUPPORT THE THEME, THE THESIS OF
THE MEDICATION.
BUT IT'S NOT A -- THE BOOK ISN'T
A PHEPL RAY OF MY LIFE.
I USE MY LIFE FOR OTHER
PURPOSES.
>> Ifill: IF IT'S NOT A
CLASSIC MEMOIR, WHAT WOULD YOU
CALL THIS?
>> I WOULD CALL IT A MEDITATION.
THAT IS MEDITATION OF THE
SUBJECT OF ONE'S CHILDHOOD OR
NEW YORK OR DETECTIVE.
KAYAK MORNING WAS A MEDITATION
ON GRIEF.
A FINISHED A BOOK AS A
MEDITATION ON LOVE AND I HAVE AN
IDEA FOR A BOOK SET IN IRELAND
ON THE SUBJECTS OF ALIENATION
AND BEAUTY AND DESOLATION.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU FIND THAT
IN DEALING WITH THESE SUBJECTS
IT'S IMPORTANT TO LOOK BACK
INSIDE YOURSELF.
>> IT'S THE ONLY PLACE I HAVE
INFORMATION THAT I CAN RELY ON
AND SO THEREFORE I DRAW ON MY
LIFE TO SAY THIS HAPPENED AND
THAT HAPPENED AND THIS IS HOW I
UNDERSTAND IT NOW IN THE LIGHT
OF THIS IDEA.
AND THE REASON I MIX UP THE
FORMS-- MUCH THE WAY A PITCHER
MIXES UP A FASTBALL AND A CURVE
AND A CUTTER AND A SLIDER-- IS
SO THAT I WANT THE READER TO BE
ALERT, THE WAY A BATTER WOULD BE
ALERT, NOW CATCH ON A LITTLE TOO
LATE-- WHICH IS WHAT THE PITCHER
WANTS TO UNDERSTAND TOO LATE.
>> Woodruff: A LOT OF
SURPRISING TURNS IN THE BOOK.
YOU'LL BE READ ALONG ABOUT
SOMETHING THAT HAPPENED, SOME
EVENT IN YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD THEN
YOU'LL TURN THE PAGE AND IT WILL
BE ABOUT A MURDER.
>> EXACTLY.
>> Woodruff: ROGER ROSENBLATT,
IT'S A FASCINATING BOOK.
"THE BOY DETECTIVE: A NEW YORK
CHILDHOOD."
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES, KATHLEEN
SEBELIUS, CONCEDED THE ROLLOUT
OF THE NEW HEALTH CARE WEBSITE
HAS BEEN A DEBACLE.
BUT SHE TURNED ASIDE REPUBLICAN
CLAIMS THAT INFORMATION ON THE
SITE IS NOT SECURE.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TOLD A BOSTON
CROWD THAT HE'S NOT HAPPY WITH
THE HEALTH CARE ROLLOUT
PROBLEMS.
BUT HE SAID THE STATE HEALTH
CARE SYSTEM IN MASSACHUSETTS
ALSO GOT OFF TO A SLOW START.
AND THE FEDERAL RESERVE
ANNOUNCED IT'S KEEPING SHORT-
TERM INTEREST RATES AT A RECORD
LOW, AND CONTINUING ITS STIMULUS
EFFORTS FOR NOW.
>> Ifill: FIRST-BORN CHILDREN,
ON AVERAGE, DO BETTER IN SCHOOL,
ARE LESS LIKELY TO HAVE
SUBSTANCE ABUSE PROBLEMS AND
ACCUMULATE MORE WEALTH.
ON MAKING SENSE, WE GET AN
ECONOMICS PERSPECTIVE ON HOW THE
WAY WE RAISE THESE CHILDREN CAN
AFFECT THE REST OF THEIR LIVES.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
PRIME MINISTER OF IRAQ'S VISIT
TO THE WHITE HOUSE.
AND CALL FOR HELP TO END A SPATE
OF RECENT BLOODSHED.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
"NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.